# 2.5 Setup Local Environment

The previous steps completed the setup of our Azure AI infrastructure (resources). Now it's time to setup our development environment to talk to our Azure backend.

----

## 1. Launch GitHub Codespaces

If you had not previously done so, complete the [Getting Started](http://localhost:8000/azure-ai-rag-workshop/#getting-started) steps now.

1. [Fork this repository](https://github.com/nitya/azure-ai-rag-workshop) to your personal GitHub profile.
1. Open the fork in a new browser tab.
1. Click on the blue "Code" button and select `Codespaces` 
1. Click on the `Create Codespaces on Main` button

You should see GitHub Codespaces launch in a new browser tab. 

 - It will take a few minutes to complete loading. 
 - You should see a Visual Studio Code IDE in the browser
 - When ready, you should see a VS Code terminal with active prompt.


## 2. Verify Azure CLI Installed

The repository is configured with a devcontainer that has all necessary dependencies pre-installed. Let's verify the `az` (Azure Developer CLI) was installed.

```bash  title=""
az version
```

## 3. Authenticate with Azure CLI

Log into your Azure subscription from the VS Code terminal in GitHub Codespaces using the following command, and follow the prompts to complete the workflow.

```bash title=""
az login --use-device-code
```

If you have a multi-tenancy account, you can set the default tenant when logging in as follows, where `<TENANTID>` is replaced with the relevant identifier.

```bash title=""
az login --use-device-code --tenant <TENANTID>
```

## 4. Verify Python Packages 

The codebase is set up with a `requirements.txt` file that has all the necesary Python package dependencies listed. These are auto-installed into the devcontainer at launch. Use `pip list | grep <KEYWORD>` to verify if specific packages were installed.

For instance use this command to list `azure` packages installed and verify they match the ones listed in requirements (e.g., look for `azure-ai-projects`, `azure-ai-inference`, `azure-ai-identity`, `azure-search-documents`, `azure-core`, `azure-ai-evaluation`)

```bash title=""
pip list | grep azure
```