# 1.1 Azure Developer CLI

!!! note "This section is derived from two resources: the [BIntroduction to Azure Developer CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/introduction-to-azure-developer-cli/) learn module, and the [What is Azure Developer CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/overview?tabs=windows) documentation."

## 1. AZD CLI Tool

The Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) is [described as](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/overview?tabs=windows) an open-source tool that:

- accelerates provisioning and deploying app resources on Azure
- with developer-friendly commands for key stages in your development workflow
- works in the terminal, in your IDE, and in CI/CD pipelines

The `azd` tool operates on extensible blueprint templates that provide all the information you need (configuration and code) to get applications provisioned, deployed, and running, on Azure. Create a template from scratch or customize and expand one from the [Awesome AZD](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/make-azd-compatible?pivots=azd-convert) gallery.


## 2. AZD Template

The [Azure Developer CLI template](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/azd-templates?tabs=csharp) has the following components:

- **Reusable IaC assets**. An `infra/` folder with _infrastructure-as-code_ (IaC) assets using template languages like Bicep (Azure-specific) and Terraform (cloud-agnostic) to define **resources** for applications. These assets are _independent_ of the application source code - and enable consistent, reproducible deployments of the required infrastructure across users.
- **Starter App code**. A `src/` directory that can be customized or replaced with your own app. This allows you to start with a template that has the right _infrastructure_ configured (which can be complicated for developers) and then focus only on the application development.
- **Configuration files**. An `azure.yaml` configuration file that maps your deployment (services) to provisioned (resources) for the application.
- **Pipeline workflow files** (optional). A `.github` or `.azdo/` folder configured for automated CI/CD workflows using GitHub Actions or Azure DevOps pipelines. This allows `azd` to automate redeployments on code changes without manual (commandline) intervention.

## 3. AZD Template workflow

The [basic steps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/overview?tabs=windows#a-sample-azd-workflow) for using an existing template are:

1. `azd init -t <name>` → Initiailize the named template in local folder
2. `azd auth login` → Log into an Azure account targeted for deployment
3. `azd up` → Provision the resources and deploy the code in 1 command
