# 1.1 Learning Roadmap

!!! info "TThis workshop teaches you the capabilities of the Azure AI Foundry Portal with a set of interactive labs that take you from catalog (model selection) to cloud (application deployment). The labs are derived from the documentation but assembled into an end-to-end narrative for an AI Engineer journey."

---
## 1. Core Objectives

This workshop has two core objectives:

- Develop familiarity with the layout and capabilities of the Azure AI Foundry Portal (web UI)
- Learn how to build, evaluate, and deploy, a RAG-based generative AI app portal-first.

In this context, _portal-first_ means that we prioritize using the Azure AI Foundry portal for the end-to-end developer workflow. By comprison, the [Hybrid](./../../1-Hybrid-Workshop/1-Overview/00.md) approach uses the Azure AI Foundry Portal (low-code) for setup and the Azure AI Foundry SDK (code-first) for ideation and evaluation.

---

## 2. Learning Journey

By completing the labs in this workshop, you will learn to do the following:

1. **Model Selection** - use the Azure AI model catalog to discover and compare models.
1. **Project Setup** - create an Azure AI hub & project with models and connected resources.
1. **Ideation** - go from initial prompt to functional prototype using model (with & without data).
1. **Evaluation** - learn about built-in and custom evaluators, run an evaluation flow & view results.
1. **Observability** - learn about tracing and app insights, view run traces in the portal.
1. **Deployment** - go from prototype to production by deploying an app and using the endpoint.

Along the way, we'll also understand how to orchestrate complex workflows in the portal using the currently-provided tooling (prompt flow) and a retrieval-augmented generation pattern (RAG) to improve responses by grounding them in your data.

---

??? quote "OPTIONAL → Once you've completed this exercise, try the [Hybrid Workshop](./../../1-Hybrid-Workshop/1-Overview/00.md) to get your first experience with the Azure AI Foundry SDK for a code-first development workflow in Python."
